Instructions/lesson 2.1 (#1)
Code-the-Dream-School/intro-to-programming: instructions/section-2/lesson-2-1.md

[< Back to Overview](../../README.md)

# Lesson 2.1: Introduction to Git

This assignment will teach you the following:

- Repositories
- Commits
- History
- GitHub

---

## Instructions

### Getting Started:

Fork this repository

[SCREENSHOT]

View the forked repository

[SCREENSHOT]

Clone this repository so that the code is available on your local machine:

> Note: Run this command from the directory where you want to store your code

    git clone PROJECT

Navigate to the directory you just cloned in your terminal:

    cd PROJECT

Create a new local branch to work on separate from the `main` branch:

    git checkout -b lesson-2-1

Now, open the project directory in your code editor and continue to the next section.

### Task List:

> - [ ] Edit the README.md file to include your name

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Create a file called `index.html`
- [ ] Type your name into the file and save
```

### Final Step:

Check the status of your local repository to double-check the changes you made:

    git status

Stage the file(s) that you edited:

    git add .

> 

Author: Add `git status` and notice the difference

> Create a commit for the changes you made and add a message:

Author: ```suggestion
Create a commit for the changes you made and add a message describing the changes you made:
```

>     git commit -m "your message"

Author: Add hint for what to do if they leave off `-m`

Author: Will need to revisit this later

Push your commit to the remote repository (visible in GitHub):

    git push

> 

Author: Add step with `git status` and `git log --oneline` (make sure to explain `:q`)

Create a pull request and submit:

> [View instructions]()

Author: Need to write up these instructions...
